Document running the OpenTelemetry Collector alongside the Datadog Agent (#12668)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/tracing/setup_overview/open_standards/_index.md

To see more information and additional examples of how you might configure your collector, see [the OpenTelemetry Collector configuration documentation][5].

#### Running alongside the Datadog Agent

If running the OpenTelemetry Collector on a host with an existing Datadog Agent, replace the Datadog exporter by an OTLP exporter pointing to the Datadog Agent:

1. Enable the Datadog Agent OTLP ingest through gRPC by following the instructions in the [dedicated section][25].

> 2. Define an OTLP exporter to your metrics and traces pipelines, pointing to the Datadog Agent endpoint. For example, if your Datadog Agent is listening on port 4317 and you are running on the same host, you may define the exporter as:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. On the OpenTelemetry collector config, define an OTLP exporter pointing to the Datadog Agent endpoint. For example, if your Datadog Agent is listening on port 4317 and you are running on the same host, you may define the exporter as:
```

   ```yaml
   exporters:
     otlp:
       endpoint: "0.0.0.0:4317"
       tls:
        insecure: true
   ```
   When running in a containerized environment, ensure the `endpoint` setting is configured to use the appropriate hostname for the Datadog Agent.

> 3. Replace the Datadog exporter in your metrics and traces pipelines by the OTLP exporter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. On the OpenTelemetry collector config, replace uses of the Datadog exporter in your metrics and traces pipelines by the OTLP exporter.
```
Is there some example YAML we can provide for this point?

To see more information and additional examples of how you might configure your collector, see [the OpenTelemetry Collector configuration documentation][5].

#### Running alongside the Datadog Agent

> If running the OpenTelemetry Collector on a host with an existing Datadog Agent, replace the Datadog exporter by an OTLP exporter pointing to the Datadog Agent:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If running the OpenTelemetry Collector on a host with an existing Datadog Agent, replace the Datadog exporter with an OTLP exporter pointing to the Datadog Agent:
```

1. Enable the Datadog Agent OTLP ingest through gRPC by following the instructions in the [dedicated section][25].

2. On the OpenTelemetry collector config, define an OTLP exporter pointing to the Datadog Agent endpoint. For example, if your Datadog Agent is listening on port 4317 and you are running on the same host, you may define the exporter as:
   ```yaml
   exporters:
     otlp:
       endpoint: "0.0.0.0:4317"
       tls:
        insecure: true
   ```
   When running in a containerized environment, ensure the `endpoint` setting is configured to use the appropriate hostname for the Datadog Agent.

> 3. On the OpenTelemetry collector config, replace uses of the Datadog exporter in your metrics and traces pipelines by the OTLP exporter. For example, if you have one metrics and one traces pipeline with the Datadog exporter:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. On the OpenTelemetry collector config, replace uses of the Datadog exporter in your metrics and traces pipelines with the OTLP exporter. For example, if you have one metrics and one traces pipeline with the Datadog exporter, use the following configuration:
```
